koji-ansible
============

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/ktdreyer/koji-ansible.svg?branch=master
             :target: https://travis-ci.org/ktdreyer/koji-ansible

Ansible modules to manage Koji resources.

This is not about installing Koji. Instead, it is a way to declaratively
define things within Koji, where you might normally use the koji CLI.

koji_tag
--------

The ``koji_tag`` module can create, update, and delete tags within Koji. It can
also manage tag inheritance, packages list and group list for a tag.

.. code-block:: yaml

    - name: Create a koji tag for the ceph product
      koji_tag:
        name: ceph-3.1-rhel-7
        arches: x86_64
        state: present
        packages:
          kdreyer:
            - ansible
            - ceph
            - ceph-ansible
	groups:
	  srpm-build:
	    - rpm-build
	    - fedpkg

koji_target
-----------

The ``koji_target`` module can create, update, and delete targets within Koji.

.. code-block:: yaml

    - name: Create a koji build target for Fedora 29
      koji_target:
        name: f29-candidate
        build_tag: f29-build
        dest_tag: f29-updates-candidate
        state: present

koji_external_repo
------------------

The ``koji_external_repo`` module can create, update, and delete `external
repositories <https://docs.pagure.org/koji/external_repo_server_bootstrap/>`_
within Koji.

.. code-block:: yaml

    - name: Create an external repo for CentOS "CR"
      koji_external_repo:
        name: centos7-cr
        url: http://mirror.centos.org/centos/7/cr/$arch/
        state: present

You can then configure these repositories (and their priorities) on each of
your Koji tags with the ``external_repos`` parameter to the ``koji_tag``
module.

koji_cg
-------

The ``koji_cg`` module can grant or revoke access to a `content generator
<https://docs.pagure.org/koji/content_generators/>`_ for a user account.

This user account must already exist in Koji's database. For example, you may
run an authenticated ``koji hello`` command to create the account database
entry.

.. code-block:: yaml

    - name: Grant access to the rcm/debbuild account
      koji_cg:
        koji: mykoji
        name: debian
        user: rcm/debbuild
        state: present

Note, this method tries to call the "grantCGAccess" RPC on every run because
we have no ability to query the current state. See the `listCGs
<https://pagure.io/koji/pull-request/1160>`_ hub RPC in progress.

koji_btype
----------

The ``koji_btype`` module can add new build types. These are typically in
support of `content generators
<https://docs.pagure.org/koji/content_generators/>`_.

(Koji only supports adding new build types, not deleting them.)

.. code-block:: yaml

    - name: Add debian build type to Koji
      koji_btype:
        koji: mykoji
        name: debian
        state: present

koji_archivetype
----------------

The ``koji_archivetype`` module can add new archive types. This allows Koji to
recognize new build archive files, for example ``.deb`` files.  These are
typically in support of `content generators
<https://docs.pagure.org/koji/content_generators/>`_.

(Koji only supports adding new archive types, not deleting them.)

This module uses the new `addArchiveType
<https://pagure.io/koji/pull-request/1149>`_ RPC, which will be available in a
future version of Koji.

.. code-block:: yaml

    - name: Add deb archive type
      koji_archivetype:
        name: deb
        description: Debian packages
        extensions: deb
        state: present

koji_host
---------

The ``koji_host`` module can add new hosts and manage existing hosts.

Koji only supports adding new hosts, not deleting them. Once they're defined,
you can enable or disable the hosts with ``state: enabled`` or ``state:
disabled``.

.. code-block:: yaml

    - name: Add new builder1 host
      koji_host:
        name: builder1.example.com
        arches: [x86_64]
        state: enabled
        channels:
          - default
          - createrepo

koji_user
---------

The ``koji_user`` module can add new users and manage existing users and
permissions.

Koji only supports adding new users, not deleting them. Once they're defined,
you can enable or disable the users with ``state: enabled`` or ``state:
disabled``.

.. code-block:: yaml

    - name: Add new kdreyer user
      koji_user:
        name: kdreyer
        state: enabled
        permissions: [admin]

koji_tag_inheritance
--------------------

The ``koji_tag`` module (above) is all-or-nothing when it comes to managing
tag inheritance. When you set inheritance with ``koji_tag``, the module will
delete any inheritance relationships that are not defined there.

In some cases you may want to declare *some* inheritance relationships within
Ansible without clobbering other existing inheritance relationships. For
example, `MBS <https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Changes/ModuleBuildService>`_
will dynamically manage some inheritance relationships of tags, and you do not
want Ansible to fight MBS.

To declare inheritance relationships with finer granularity, you may use the
``koji_tag_inheritance`` module.

.. code-block:: yaml

    - name: set devtoolset-7 as a parent of ceph nautilus
      koji_tag_inheritance:
        parent_tag: sclo7-devtoolset-7-rh-release
        child_tag: storage7-ceph-nautilus-el7-build
        priority: 25

This will only mange that single parent-child relationship between the two
tags, and it will not delete any other inheritance relationships.

Koji profiles
-------------

You must tell koji-ansible which Koji client profile to use.

Here is an example of setting a profile explicitly on the task:

.. code-block:: yaml

    - name: Create a koji tag for the ceph product
      koji_tag:
        koji: kojidev
        name: ceph-3.1-rhel-7
        arches: x86_64
        state: present

The ``koji: kojidev`` setting means Ansible will search
``~/.koji/config.d/*.conf`` and ``/etc/koji.conf.d/*.conf`` for the
``[kojidev]`` config section and perform the tag management on that Koji hub
listed there.

To avoid specifying this ``koji:`` argument on every task, you can set the
``KOJI_PROFILE`` environment variable when running ``ansible-playbook``.
koji-ansible will fall back to using ``KOJI_PROFILE`` for the tasks that have
no explicit ``koji:`` argument::

   KOJI_PROFILE=kojidev ansible-playbook -v my-koji-playbook.yaml

File paths
----------

These modules import ``common_koji`` from the ``module_utils`` directory.

One easy way to arrange your Ansible files is to symlink the ``library`` and
``module_utils`` directories into the directory with your playbook.

For example, if you have a ``koji.yml`` playbook that you run with
``ansible-playbook``, it should live alongside these ``library`` and
``module_utils`` directories::

    top
    ├── koji.yml
    ├── module_utils
    └── library

and you should run the playbook like so::

   ansible-playbook koji.yml


Generating a playbook from a live Koji instance
-----------------------------------------------

Do you have a Koji hub that has many tags, targets, and other settings that
were crafted by hand over the years? You can use the
``./utils/generate-playbook`` script to query your Koji hub and write an
Ansible playbook that describes some or all of the tags. You can then store
this YAML in Git. Other things beyond tags (like targets) are not yet
supported.

This ``generate-playbook`` utility's output may not be the most elegant way to
manage your Koji tags. There will be lots of repetition, because it will not
use any Ansible variables, etc. The purpose of this utility is simply to help
you get up and running quickly with koji-ansible.


TODO
----

* Unit tests

* The long-term goal of this project is to merge into `ansible
  <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/tree/devel/lib/ansible/modules>`_ itself
  so that the modules are built in. To that end, this koji-ansible project is
  licensed under the GPLv3 to match Ansible's license.
